# 1. (8.0 points) What Would Python Display?  

Assume the following code has been executed already.  

one = 1  

def choose(one): if big(one): print('A') if huge(one): print('B') elif big(one) or huge(one): print('C') if big(one) or print('D'): print('E') else: print('F')  

big $=$ lambda x: ${\textbf{x}}>=$ one huge $=$ lambda x: x $>$ one def which(): one $=~3$ def this(): return one return one $+\ 1$ return this one $\mathit{\Theta}=\ 4$  

(a) $({\bf6.0\ p t})$ Which lines are displayed by the interactive Python interpreter after evaluating choose(one $^+$ one)? Select all that apply.  

A   
B   
C   
D   
E   
None   
None of the above  

(b) $(\bf{2.0\ p t})$ What is displayed by the interactive Python interpreter after evaluating which()()?  

$\bigcirc~2$   
$\bigcirc\,3$   
O 4   
O 5   
O A function   
O An error occurs before anything is displayed  

# 3. (8.0 points) Nearly Square  

Implement near_square, which takes positive integer n and non-negative integer k. It returns the largest integer less than or equal to n which is the product of two positive integers that differ by $\mathtt{k}$ or less. You may use solve, which is provided.  

def near_square(n, k): """Return the largest integer that is less than or equal to n and equals a $^*$ b for some positive integers a and b where abs $(a\ -b)<=k.$ $\begin{array}{r l r}{\gg>\mathrm{~near\_square}(125\,,\,\,0)}&{\#\mathrm{~\,~11~*~\,11~=~121\,~and~\abs}(11\,\,-\,\,11)\;\,=\;0}\\ {121}&{}&{}\\ {>>\mathrm{~near\_square}(120\,,\,\,3)}&{\#\mathrm{~\,~10~*~\,12~=~120\,~and~\abs}(10\,\,-\,\,12)\;\,=\;2}\\ {120}&{}&{}&{}\\ {>>>\mathrm{~near\_square}(120\,,\,\,1)}&{\#\mathrm{~\,~10~*~\,11~=~110\,~and~\abs}(10\,\,-\,\,11)\;\,=\;1}\end{array}$ 110 """ while True: $\mathtt{g a p}\mathtt{\mathtt{\mu}}=\mathtt{k}$ while (a) $\mathrm{~\bf~x~}=\mathrm{~\overbrace~{~\bf~\underline{~}{~\mu~}~}~}-\mathrm{~\bf~\underline{~}{~\mu~}~}-\mathrm{~\bf~\underline{~}{~\mu~}~}$ if # Check if x is a whole number (c) return (d) (e) (f)   
def solve(b, c): """Returns the largest ${\tt x}$ for which $\begin{array}{c c c c c c}{{\texttt{x}*}}&{{(\texttt{x}+\texttt{b})}}&{{=}}&{{\texttt{c}}}\end{array}$ >>> solve(2, 120) # $x{=}10$ solves $\textbf{x}*\ \left(\mathbf{x}\ +\ 2\right)\ =\ 120$ 10.0   
>>> solve(2, 121) # x=10.045... solves $\textbf{x}*\ (\textbf{x}+\textbf{2})\ =\ 121$   
10.045361017187261   
"""   
return $(b*b/4+c)**0.5-b/2$  

(a) $(\bf{2.0\ p t})$ Fill in blank (a). Select all that apply.  

$$
\begin{array}{l}{{\stackrel{\triangledown}{\bigtriangledown}~\mathrm{gap}}}\\ {{\stackrel{\triangledown}{\bigtriangledown}~\mathrm{gap}~:=~0}}\\ {{\stackrel{\triangledown}{\bigtriangledown}~\mathrm{gap}~>~0}}\\ {{\stackrel{\triangledown}{\bigtriangledown}~\mathrm{gap}~>=~0}}\end{array}
$$  