# 1. (8.0 points) What Would Python Display?  

Assume the following code has been executed already.  

one = 1  

def choose(one): if big(one): print('A') if huge(one): print('B') elif big(one) or huge(one): print('C') if big(one) or print('D'): print('E') else: print('F')  

big $=$ lambda x: $\texttt{x}>=$ one huge $=$ lambda x: x $>$ one def which(): one $\r=\r3$ def this(): return one return one $^{+\quad1}$ return this one $=~4$  

(a) $\mathbf{(6.0~pt)}$ Which lines are displayed by the interactive Python interpreter after evaluating choose(one one)? Select all that apply.  

A  
B  
C  
D  
E  
口 None  
None of the above  

(b) $\left({\bf2.0\mathrm{{pt}}}\right)$ What is displayed by the interactive Python interpreter after evaluating which()()?  

4   
5   
A function   
An error occurs before anything is displayed  

# 3. (8.0 points) Nearly Square  

Implement near_square, which takes positive integer n and non-negative integer k. It returns the largest integer less than or equal to n which is the product of two positive integers that differ by $\Bbbk$ or less. You may use solve, which is provided.  

def near_square(n, k): """Return the largest integer that is less than or equal to n and equals a $^*$ b for some positive integers a and b where abs $({\texttt{a-b}})<={\texttt{k}},$ . $\begin{array}{r l r l}&{>>>\mathrm{~near_-square}(125,0)}&{\#~11*11=121\mathrm{~and~}\mathsf{a b s}(11-11)=0}\ &{121}&{\phantom{=}}\ &{>>\mathrm{~near_-square}(120,3)\quad\#~10*12=120\mathrm{~and~}\mathsf{a b s}(10-12)=2}\ &{120}&{\phantom{=}}\ &{>>\mathrm{~near_-square}(120,1)}&{\#~10*11=110\mathrm{~and~}\mathsf{a b s}(10-11)=1}\end{array}$ 110 """  

while True:  

$\mathtt{g a p}=\mathtt{k}$   
while (a) $\begin{array}{r}{\textbf{x}=\underbrace{\phantom{\left(i\alpha-1\right)}}_{\left(\ b\right)}=\underbrace{\phantom{\left(i\alpha-1\right)}}_{\left(\ b\right)}}\end{array}$ if # Check if x is a whole number (c) return (d) (e) (f)  

def solve(b, c):  

"""Returns the largest $\mathtt{x}$ for which ${\textbf{x}*\textbf{(x+b)}={\textsf{c}}}$   
>>> solve(2, 120) # $\mathtt{x}{=}10$ solves $\textbf{x}*(\textbf{x}+\mathbf{\mu}2)=120$   
10.0   
>>> solve(2, 121) # x=10.045... solves $\textbf{x}*(\textbf{x}+\mathbf{\mu}2)=121$   
10.045361017187261   
"""   
return $({\sf b}{*}{\sf b}/4+{\sf c})**0.5-{\sf b}/2$  

(a) $\left({\bf2.0\mathrm{{pt}}}\right)$ Fill in blank (a). Select all that apply.  

$$
\begin{array}{r l}&{\boxed{\begin{array}{l}{\mathtt{g a p}}\ {\mathtt{g a p}}\end{array}:=0}}\ &{\boxed{\begin{array}{r l}{\mathtt{C a p}}&{>0}\ {\mathtt{Q g a p}}&{>0}\end{array}}}\ &{\boxed{\begin{array}{r l}{\mathtt{C a p}}&{>0}\end{array}}}\end{array}
$$  